---
layout: post
title:  "Separating compound figures in journal articles to allow for subfigure classification"
date:   2013-03-29
image: /images/compoundfigures.png
categories: research
authors: "<strong>Ajad Chhatkuli</strong>, Antonio Foncubierta-Rodríguez, Dimitrios Markonis, Fabrice Meriaudeau, Henning Müller"
venue: "SPIE"
pdf: https://www.spiedigitallibrary.org/conference-proceedings-of-spie/8674/86740J/Separating-compound-figures-in-journal-articles-to-allow-for-subfigure/10.1117/12.2007897.pdf
---
Journal images represent an important part of the knowledge stored in the medical literature. Figure classification has received much attention as the information of the image types can be used in a variety of contexts to focus image search and filter out unwanted information or ”noise”, for example non–clinical images. A major problem in figure classification is the fact that many figures in the biomedical literature are compound figures and do often contain more than a single figure type. Some journals do separate compound figures into several parts but many do not, thus requiring currently manual separation. In this work, a technique of compound figure separation is proposed and implemented based on systematic detection and analysis of uniform space gaps. The method discussed in this article is evaluated on a dataset of journal figures of the open access literature that was created for the ImageCLEF 2012 benchmark and contains about 3000 compound figures. Automatic tools can easily reach a relatively high accuracy in separating compound figures. To further increase accuracy efforts are needed to improve the detection process as well as to avoid over–separation with powerful analysis strategies.
